 It refers to bundling the data (variables) and methods (functions) that manipulate 
 the data into a single unit, called a class, 
 while restricting direct access to some of the object's components (by making them private or protected).

Two Important  property of Encapsulation 

Data Protection: Encapsulation protects the internal state of an object by keeping its data members private. 
    Access to and modification of these data members is restricted to the class’s public methods, 
    ensuring controlled and secure data manipulation.

Information Hiding: Encapsulation hides the internal implementation details of a class from external code. 
    Only the public interface of the class is accessible, 
    providing abstraction and simplifying the usage of the class while allowing 
    the internal implementation to be modified without impacting external code.

Role of Access Specifiers in Encapsulation

Access specifiers facilitate Data Hiding in C++ programs by restricting access to the class member functions and data members. There are three types of access specifiers in C++:

    Private: Private access specifier means that the member function or data member can only be accessed by other member functions of the same class.
    Protected: A protected access specifier means that the member function or data member can be accessed by other member functions of the same class or by derived classes.
    Public: Public access specifier means that the member function or data member can be accessed by any code. 

By default, all data members and member functions of a class are made private by the compiler.

Real-Life Analogy:

Think of encapsulation like a vending machine:

    The inner workings (i.e., how the machine dispenses snacks, handles coins, etc.) are hidden from the user (just like private data in a class).
    The user can only interact with the machine by pressing buttons and inserting coins (these are like the public methods in a class).
    The machine ensures that only valid coins are accepted and only then provides the product (similar to how encapsulation controls access to data).